{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh15060\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 DREAM3 In Silico Challenges\

\b0\fs24 \

\b Daniel Marbach, October 23, 2008
\b0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 \ul \ulc2 daniel.marbach@gmail.com\cf0 \ulnone \
\
\

\b\fs28 1. Overview\

\b0\fs24 \
This folder contains the complete DREAM3 In Silico Challenges, including the datasets and the gold standards from the DREAM website plus additional information.\
\
All data can be freely used. Please refer to our website (see below) for the latest information on our papers and indications on how to cite us.\
\
All files have been generated automatically with our easy-to-use Java tool GeneNetWeaver (GNW). Using GNW you can, for example:\
- open and visualize the gene network structures\
- open the dynamical models of the gold standards and simulate additional datasets\
- generate additional benchmarks similar to the DREAM3 challenges\
\

\b Useful websites:
\b0 \
\
Complete description of our work: \cf2 \ul http://lis.epfl.ch/grn\cf0 \ulnone \
GeneNetWeaver: \cf2 \ul http://gnw.sourceforge.net\cf0 \ulnone \
DREAM3 challenge website: \cf2 \ul http://wiki.c2b2.columbia.edu/dream/index.php/The_DREAM3_In-Silico-Network_Challenges._Description\cf0 \ulnone \
\
\

\b\fs28 2. The three challenges\

\b0\fs24 \
The three folders InSilico10, InSilico50, and InSilico100 correspond to the three DREAM3 In Silico Challenges of the respective sizes. For each challenge there are the following subfolders:\
\

\b DREAM3 data\

\b0 \
Contains the noisy time series and steady state datasets of the DREAM challenge. Refer to the DREAM website for a description of this data. This data is also available on the DREAM website.\
\

\b DREAM3 gold standards\

\b0 \
Contains the gold standards (the true network structure) of the DREAM challenge. These files are also available on the DREAM website.\
\

\b Data without noise\

\b0 \
The datasets before addition of noise. These are the same files as in the folder "DREAM3 data", but before addition of noise. In addition, the data on the protein concentrations are also included (also noisefree). Obviously, these datasets were not available for the participants of the DREAM3 challenge.\
\

\b Networks\

\b0 \
This folder contains further information on the gold standard networks that were used to simulate the data. Here's a description of the files:\
\

\i networkName-gene-names.tsv\

\i0 In the DREAM3 challenge, genes were labeled G1, G2, etc. This table contains for each gene the original label in the source networks (see Sect. 3). (Note that for the e.coli network, the label in the source network is just a number. You have to check on Uri Alon's webpage to see which number corresponds to which gene).\
\

\i networkName-initial-conditions.tsv\

\i0 The initial conditions used in the simulation of the time series experiments.\
\

\i networkName.tsv\

\i0 The signed network structures of the gold standards. These are the same network structures as in "DREAM3 gold standards", but in a different format, where the sign (\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
excitatory\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  / inhibitory) of each link is specified. These files can be opened and visualized with GNW.\
\

\i networkName.xml\

\i0 The dynamical models of the gold standard networks. These files can be opened and simulated with GNW. (Note that even though we use SBML, these files cannot be opened with other simulators than GNW. Using a compatible SMBL format in GNW is on our todo list...)\
\
\

\b\fs28 3. Network graphs\

\b0\fs24 \
Contains graphic representations of all gold standard networks in EPS format. You can create and export suitable images yourself by opening the network files mentioned in the previous section with GNW.\
\
\

\b\fs28 4. Source networks\

\b0\fs24 \
These are the two source networks from which we extracted modules to generate the gold standard network structures:\
\

\i ecoli-ShenOrr2002.tsv
\i0 \
The e.coli transcriptional regulatory network from Shen-Orr et al. (
\i Nat Genet
\i0 , 31:64-68, 2002). The file corresponds to the updated version (1.1) without autoregulatory loops, taken from Uri Alon's website (\cf2 \ul http://www.weizmann.ac.il/mcb/UriAlon/Network_motifs_in_coli/ColiNet-1.1/\cf0 \ulnone ). (Note, in Alon's file the first column is the target and the second column is the regulator. We use the opposite convention. Thus, we \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
reformatted\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  the file. This is why the two files look different---but they correspond to the exact same network structure.)\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\i \cf0 yeast-Reguly2006.tsv\

\i0 A yeast genetic interaction network described in Reguly et al. (
\i J Biol
\i0 , 5:11, 2006). \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \

\b Important note
\b0 : We do not recommend to use these networks anymore. Instead, use the transcriptional regulatory networks of e.coli and yeast \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
available\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  on: \cf2 \ul http://gnw.sourceforge.net\cf0 \ulnone .\
\
- Alon's network is not up to date anymore. Instead, the e.coli transcriptional network of EcoCyc / RegulonDB should be used. \
- The yeast genetic interaction network of Reguly et al. is not a transcriptional network. The transcriptional regulatory network distributed with GNW is better suited.\
}